Update README.md (#1650)
aklivity/zilla: README.md

- **Schema enforcement** — validate payloads against OpenAPI / AsyncAPI / Avro / Protobuf schemas
- **TLS termination** — offload TLS handling from your services
- **Observability** — emit metrics to Prometheus and traces to OpenTelemetry

## Get Started in 60 Seconds

**Prerequisites:** Docker Compose

```bash
git clone https://github.com/aklivity/zilla.git
cd zilla/examples
docker compose --project-directory http.kafka.crud up -d
```

This starts Zilla, a local Kafka cluster, and a Kafka UI at [http://localhost:8080](http://localhost:8080/ui/clusters/local/all-topics).

Try it — create a Kafka-backed resource over plain HTTP:

```bash
# Create an item (produces a Kafka message)
curl -X POST http://localhost:7114/items \
  -H 'Content-Type: application/json' \
  -d '{"name": "widget", "price": 9.99}'

# Fetch all items (consumes from Kafka topic)
curl http://localhost:7114/items
```

Watch messages appear in real time on the Kafka UI. Then stop with:

```bash
docker compose --project-directory http.kafka.crud down
```

→ **[Full Quickstart Guide](https://docs.aklivity.io/zilla/latest/getting-started/quickstart/)**

## How It Works

> Zilla is configured entirely in a single `zilla.yaml` file. You declare named **bindings** — each one specifying a protocol, a role (`server` / `client` / `proxy`), and routing rules. Bindings chain together to form a pipeline.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Zilla is configured entirely in a single `zilla.yaml` file. You declare named **bindings** — each one specifying a protocol, a behavior (`server` / `client` / `proxy`), and routing rules. Bindings chain together to form a pipeline.
```

## Install

Zilla has no external dependencies. Pick your preferred deployment method:

**Homebrew**
```bash
brew tap aklivity/tap
brew install zilla
zilla start -ve -c ./zilla.yaml
```

**Docker**
```bash
docker pull ghcr.io/aklivity/zilla
docker run ghcr.io/aklivity/zilla:latest start -v
```

**Helm (Kubernetes)**
```bash
helm install zilla oci://ghcr.io/aklivity/charts/zilla \
  --namespace zilla --create-namespace --wait \
  --values values.yaml \
  --set-file zilla\\.yaml=zilla.yaml
```

Both single-node and clustered deployments are supported.

## Key Features

**Protocol support:** HTTP · SSE · gRPC · MQTT · WebSocket · Kafka (native)

**API specifications:** Import OpenAPI and AsyncAPI schemas directly as Zilla config — no translation step required.

**Schema registries:** Integrate with Apicurio or Karapace to validate `JSON`, `Avro`, and `Protobuf` payloads at the proxy layer.

**Security:** JWT-based authentication including [continuous stream authorization](https://www.aklivity.io/post/a-primer-on-server-sent-events-sse) for long-lived SSE connections.

**Observability:** Native Prometheus metrics and OpenTelemetry tracing exporters.

> **Performance:** Stateless architecture with zero-copy message flow means near-zero latency overhead. See the [benchmark](https://www.aklivity.io/post/proxy-benefits-with-near-zero-latency-tax-aklivity-zilla-benchmark-series-part-1).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Performance:** Stateless architecture with multi-core flow control means near-zero latency overhead. See the [benchmark](https://www.aklivity.io/post/proxy-benefits-with-near-zero-latency-tax-aklivity-zilla-benchmark-series-part-1).
```
